This page is a copy of the Projects section of my LinkedIn profile. The other sections can be found [on the main page](https://YawarRaza7349.github.io).

# Projects

## Proofs About Particular Programs (Work in Progress)

Dec 2023 - Mar 2024  
(Coq; solo)

- Experimented with writing proofs in Coq about how specific programs in a small functional programming language behave.
- Tried two different implementations, one closer to an interpreter and one closer to an operational semantics.
- Represented continuations in a way that acts like a zipper, but looks like a call stack to give it a clearer structure.

## Technical Writing Samples

Mar 2019 - Feb 2024  
(solo)

- [The Visitor Pattern in JavaScript](https://codereview.stackexchange.com/a/249999)
- [On moving variables to outer scopes](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/a/388486)
- [The real difference between "where" and "sharing" in SML](https://github.com/SMLFamily/Successor-ML/issues/7#issuecomment-1948242700)
- [A new way to think about SML's opaque ascription](https://github.com/SMLFamily/Successor-ML/issues/27#issuecomment-1948244075)
- [The difference between bound and free type variables](https://gist.github.com/YawarRaza7349/78cd8c3c33d6924fcf8af4a631bb531a)

## Designing Computer Languages

Aug 2018 - Jul 2023  
(solo)

- Worked out the details of a markup language serving as an alternative to XML, taking influence from languages like JSON and AsciiDoc.
- Invented an educational programming language for learning how memory works in C++ while being more familiar to Java/C# coders.
- Contemplated and experimented with several other general language designs and features, particularly object-oriented ones.
- Experimented using example code to test language constructs for simplicity and expressiveness in both syntax and semantics.

## A Mechanized Proof in Coq of the Type Soundness of Core L³

Jan 2018 - May 2018  
(Coq; solo)

- Worked on translating the type soundness proof from a research paper into Coq so it can be machine-checked.
- Experimented with different encodings (lists, functions, etc.) to see which one was easiest to use in the proofs.
- [Project Report](https://cs.rit.edu/~mtf/student-resources/20175_raza_mscourse.pdf)

## Inverse Kinematics of a Stick Figure’s Limbs

Oct 2017 - Dec 2017  
(JavaScript/three.js; solo)

- An inverse kinematics program animating limbs’ internal joints to resemble the given motion-capture data.
- Iteratively improved animation via trial-and-error, switching from FABRIK to CCD and adding constraints.
- [Videos of the program in action!](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLY2FhVIfIl7UgElsgOhD8sE-R5X3yhsng)

## Visual Studio Code Jump-to-Definition extension for MLton

Sep 2016 - Dec 2016  
(TypeScript; solo)

- Used the Visual Studio Code Extension API and the Language Server Protocol to add one IDE feature for SML code.
- Read from the "Def-Use" file generated by the MLton compiler to connect uses of identifiers with their definitions.

## Elm Fireworks

Jul 2015 - Aug 2015  
(Elm; solo)

- A procedurally-animated display of multicolored fireworks made up of operators found in Elm code.
- Created a monadic interface for Elm's random generation and used Elm's Model-Update-View pattern.

## Assortment of small applications, mostly in JavaScript or Processing

Mar 2014 - May 2015  
(various languages; mostly solo)

- Small visualizations and games I created, some for class, some for fun, all available on GitHub. Click the link below for more info.
- Technologies used include Unity2D, Processing, Processing.js, CoffeeScript, underscore.js, HTML, the DOM API, d3.js, AJAX, Web Workers, and Haskell.
- [You can even try a few of them yourself!](https://YawarRaza7349.github.io/creative)

## PokéNet

Feb 2015 - May 2015  
(C#/WPF/PostgreSQL; team of 3)

- A fan-made, persistent application for managing Pokémon and coordinating Pokémon trades with others.
- Designed the database using ER diagrams, created scripts to populate the database, and wrote GUI code.

## Frame-by-Frame Animation Application

Jan 2014 - Apr 2015  
(Processing; solo)

- A drawing application I created to use for my 2D Animation course instead of Photoshop.
- Features onion-skinning to facilitate creating frame-by-frame animations, and also includes a color palette and a fill tool.
- [GitHub repository](https://github.com/YawarRaza7349/FrameByFrameAnimationApplication)

## Math Fusion

Sep 2014 - Dec 2014  
(C#/Unity; team of 4)

- A number manipulation game with a food theme where the player plays as a chef.
- Used the State design pattern to implement game screen navigation and evaluated UI/UX approaches for simplicity.
- [GitHub repository](https://github.com/bro9918/24Game)

## 2048.hs

Mar 2014 - Mar 2014
(Haskell; solo)

- A command-line version of the popular 2048 game written in Haskell, a functional programming language.
- [GitHub repository](https://github.com/YawarRaza7349/2048Game.hs)

## Tilecar Runner

Apr 2013 - May 2013  
(C#/XNA; team of 5)

- A race against the clock game with various power-ups and effects.
- Implemented numerous power-up effects and explored using a custom rectangle type with XNA's API.

## HTML Editor

Mar 2013 - Apr 2013  
(Java/Swing; team of 4)

- A tabbed HTML editor with file and edit options and a dynamic, collapsible tree view of HTML elements.
- Coded parsing of HTML, tag insertion, and part of the HTML tree, and learned about UML diagrams.

## Viking Charge

Mar 2013 - Apr 2013  
(C#/XNA; team of 5)

- A bullet hell game where the player charges at cannons to destroy them.
- Contributed in group programming sessions and practiced using vector math in basic game physics.

## Pizza Delivery System

Sep 2012 - Nov 2012  
(Java/Swing; team of 6)

- An application that simulates taking, cooking, and delivering food orders, and changing manager settings.
- Developed much of the CLI and GUI for the cashier, and learned about the software engineering process.

## Puzzle League Revival

Mar 2012 - May 2012  
(C#/XNA; team of 5)

- A block-swapping game, as well as a GUI to create custom puzzles.
- Helped code gameplay mechanics and learned how to integrate multiple features in an application.
